NAME
       tcpdump - dump traffic on a network

SYNOPSIS
       tcpdump [ -AbdDefghHIJKlLnNOpqStuUvxX# ] [ -B buffer_size ]
              [ -c count ] [ --count ] [ -C file_size ]
              [ -E spi@ipaddr algo:secret,...  ]
              [ -F file ] [ -G rotate_seconds ] [ -i interface ]
              [ --immediate-mode ] [ -j tstamp_type ] [ --lengths ] 
              [ -m module ] [ -M secret ] [ --number ] [ --print ] 
              [ --print-sampling nth ] [ -Q in|out|inout ] 
              [ -r file ] [ -s snaplen ] [ --skip count ]
              [ -T type ] [ --version ] [ -V file ] [ -w file ] 
              [ -W filecount ] [ -y datalinktype ] [ -z postrotate-command ] 
              [ -Z user ] [ --time-stamp-precision=tstamp_precision ] 
              [ --micro ] [--nano ] [ expression ]

DESCRIPTION
       tcpdump  prints  out a description of the contents of packets on a
       network  interface  that  match  the   Boolean   expression   (see
       pcap-filter(@MAN_MISC_INFO@)   for  the  expression  syntax);  the
       description is preceded by a time stamp, printed, by  default,  as
       hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions of a second since midnight.
       It  can  also be run with the -w flag, which causes it to save the
       packet data to a file for later analysis, and/or with the -r flag,
       which causes it to read from a saved packet file  rather  than  to
       read  packets  from  a network interface.  It can also be run with
       the -V flag, which causes it to read a list of saved packet files.
       In all cases, only packets that match expression will be processed
       by tcpdump.

       tcpdump will, if not run with  the  -c  flag,  continue  capturing
       packets until it is interrupted by a SIGINT signal (generated, for
       example,  by typing your interrupt character, typically control-C)
       or  a  SIGTERM  signal  (typically  generated  with  the   kill(1)
       command);  if  run with the -c flag, it will capture packets until
       it is interrupted by a SIGINT or SIGTERM signal or  the  specified
       number of packets have been processed.

       When tcpdump finishes capturing packets, it will report counts of:
       - packets  ``captured''  (this  is the number of packets that
       tcpdump has received and processed)
       - packets ``received by filter'' (the meaning of this depends
       on the OS on which you're running tcpdump, and possibly  on
       the  way  the OS was configured - if a filter was specified
       on the  command  line,  on  some  OSes  it  counts  packets
       regardless  of  whether  they  were  matched  by the filter
       expression and, even if they were  matched  by  the  filter
       expression,  regardless  of  whether  tcpdump  has read and
       processed them yet, on other OSes it  counts  only  packets
       that  were  matched  by the filter expression regardless of
       whether tcpdump has read and processed  them  yet,  and  on
       other  OSes it counts only packets that were matched by the
       filter expression and were processed by tcpdump)
       - packets ``dropped  by  kernel''  (this  is  the  number  of
       packets  that  were dropped, due to a lack of buffer space,
       by the packet capture mechanism in the OS on which  tcpdump
       is   running,   if  the  OS  reports  that  information  to
       applications; if not, it will be reported as 0).

       On platforms that support the SIGINFO signal, such  as  most  BSDs
       (including  macOS), it will report those counts when it receives a
       SIGINFO signal (generated, for example, by typing your  ``status''
       character,  typically  control-T, although on some platforms, such
       as macOS, the ``status'' character is not set by default,  so  you
       must  set  it  with  stty(1) in order to use it) and will continue
       capturing packets. On platforms that do not  support  the  SIGINFO
       signal, the same can be achieved by using the SIGUSR1 signal.

       Using  the  SIGUSR2  signal  along  with the -w flag will forcibly
       flush the packet buffer into the output file.

       Reading packets from a network interface may require that you have
       special privileges; see the  pcap(3PCAP)  man  page  for  details.
       Reading a saved packet file doesn't require special privileges.

OPTIONS
       -A
              Print each packet (minus its link level header) in ASCII.
              Handy for capturing web pages.  No effect when -x[x] or
              -X[X] options are used.

       -b
              Print the AS number in BGP packets using "asdot" rather
              than "asplain" representation, in RFC 5396 terms.

       -B buffer_size, --buffer-size=buffer_size
              Set the operating system capture buffer size to
              buffer_size, in units of KiB (1024 bytes).

       -c count
              Exit after receiving or reading count packets.  If the
              --skip option is used, the count starts after the skipped
              packets.

       --count
              Print only on stdout the packet count when reading capture
              file(s) instead of parsing/printing the packets. If a
              filter is specified on the command line, tcpdump counts
              only packets that were matched by the filter expression.

       -C file_size
              Before writing a raw packet to a savefile, check whether
              the file is currently larger than file_size and, if so,
              close the current savefile and open a new one.  Savefiles
              after the first savefile will have the name specified with
              the -w flag, with a number after it, starting at 1 and
              continuing upward.  The default unit of file_size is
              millions of bytes (1,000,000 bytes, not 1,048,576 bytes).

              By adding a suffix of k/K, m/M or g/G to the value, the
              unit can be changed to 1,024 (KiB), 1,048,576 (MiB), or
              1,073,741,824 (GiB) respectively.

       -d
              Dump the compiled packet-matching code in a human readable
              form to standard output and stop.

              Please mind that although code compilation is always DLT-
              specific, typically it is impossible (and unnecessary) to
              specify which DLT to use for the dump because tcpdump uses
              either the DLT of the input pcap file specified with -r, or
              the default DLT of the network interface specified with -i,
              or the particular DLT of the network interface specified
              with -y and -i respectively. In these cases the dump shows
              the same exact code that would filter the input file or the
              network interface without -d.

              However, when neither -r nor -i is specified, specifying -d
              prevents tcpdump from guessing a suitable network interface
              (see -i).  In this case the DLT defaults to EN10MB and can
              be set to another valid value manually with -y.

       -dd
              Dump packet-matching code as a C array of struct bpf_insn
              structures.

       -ddd
              Dump packet-matching code as decimal numbers (preceded with
              a count).

       -D, --list-interfaces
              Print the list of the network interfaces available on the
              system and on which tcpdump can capture packets.  For each
              network interface, a number and an interface name, possibly
              followed by a text description of the interface, are
              printed.  The interface name or the number can be supplied
              to the -i flag to specify an interface on which to capture.

              This can be useful on systems that don't have a command to
              list them (e.g., Windows systems, or UNIX systems lacking
              ifconfig -a); the number can be useful on Windows 2000 and
              later systems, where the interface name is a somewhat
              complex string.

       -e
              Print the link-level header on each dump line.  This can be
              used, for example, to print MAC layer addresses for
              protocols such as Ethernet and IEEE 802.11.

       -E
              Use spi@ipaddr algo:secret for decrypting IPsec ESP packets
              that are addressed to addr and contain Security Parameter
              Index value spi. This combination may be repeated with
              comma or newline separation.

              Note that setting the secret for IPv4 ESP packets is
              supported at this time.

              Algorithms may be des-cbc, 3des-cbc, blowfish-cbc, rc3-cbc,
              cast128-cbc, or none.  The default is des-cbc.  The ability
              to decrypt packets is only present if tcpdump was compiled
              with cryptography enabled.

              secret is the ASCII text for ESP secret key.  If preceded
              by 0x, then a hex value will be read.

              The option assumes RFC 2406 ESP, not RFC 1827 ESP.  The
              option is only for debugging purposes, and the use of this
              option with a true `secret' key is discouraged.  By
              presenting IPsec secret key onto command line you make it
              visible to others, via ps(1) and other occasions.

              In addition to the above syntax, the syntax file name may
              be used to have tcpdump read the provided file in. The file
              is opened upon receiving the first ESP packet, so any
              special permissions that tcpdump may have been given should
              already have been given up.

       -f
              Print `foreign' IPv4 addresses numerically rather than
              symbolically (this option is intended to get around serious
              brain damage in Sun's NIS server — usually it hangs forever
              translating non-local internet numbers).

              The test for `foreign' IPv4 addresses is done using the
              IPv4 address and netmask of the interface on that capture
              is being done.  If the interface has no IPv4 addresses
              (which by convention applies to the "any" pseudo-interface
              (see the -i flag below), the IPv4 netmask is assumed to be
              /0 and any IPv4 address is considered non-foreign.  If the
              IPv4 netmask is /32, all IPv4 addresses except the
              interface's own address are considered foreign.  If the
              interface has more than one IPv4 address, it is not trivial
              to predict which one will be used for the test.

              Without the -f flag, or when the netmask is assumed to be
              /0 (as discussed above), the ip broadcast primitive in the
              filter expression matches IPv4 packets that have either
              0.0.0.0 or 255.255.255.255 as the destination address.
              With the flag, the primitive uses the same netmask (but not
              the network address) to test the IPv4 destination address
              as the foreign address test.  One exception is the netmask
              /32, in which case the primitive is considered invalid for
              the interface.

       -F file
              Use file as input for the filter expression.  An additional
              expression given on the command line is ignored.

       -g, --ip-oneline
              Do not insert a line break after the IP header in verbose
              mode.

       -G rotate_seconds
              If specified, rotates the dump file specified with the -w
              option every rotate_seconds seconds.  Savefiles will have
              the name specified by -w which should include a time format
              as defined by strftime(3).  If no time format is specified,
              each new file will overwrite the previous.  Whenever a
              generated filename is not unique, tcpdump will overwrite
              the preexisting data; providing a time specification that
              is coarser than the capture period is therefore not
              advised.

              If used in conjunction with the -C option, filenames will
              take the form of `file<count>'.

       -h, --help 
              Print the tcpdump and libpcap version strings, print a
              usage message, and exit.

       --version
              Print the tcpdump and libpcap version strings and exit.

       -H
              Attempt to detect 802.11s draft mesh headers.

       -i interface, --interface=interface
              Listen, report the list of link-layer types, report the
              list of time stamp types, or report the results of
              compiling a filter expression on interface.  If unspecified
              and if the -d flag is not given, tcpdump searches the
              system interface list for the lowest numbered, configured
              up interface (excluding loopback), which may turn out to
              be, for example, ``eth0''.

              On all supported Linux systems, as well as on recent
              versions of macOS and Solaris, an interface argument of
              ``any'' means a special pseudo-interface, which captures
              packets from all regular network interfaces of the OS.
              What is considered a regular network interface is an
              implementation detail of the OS (for example, on Linux this
              includes SocketCAN devices), so packets captured on the
              ``any'' pseudo-interface may represent more different
              network protocols than expected.  Also all regular network
              interfaces are a subset of all available capture devices as
              printed by the -D flag.  The latter may also include
              capture devices that libpcap implements by means other than
              the OS network stack: Bluetooth, DAG, D-Bus, SNF and USB.
              Note that captures on the ``any'' pseudo-interface will not
              be done in promiscuous mode.

              An interface number as printed by the -D flag can be used
              as the interface argument, if no interface on the system
              has that number as a name.

       -I, --monitor-mode
              Put the interface in "monitor mode"; this is supported only
              on IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi interfaces, and supported only on some
              operating systems.

              Note that in monitor mode the adapter might disassociate
              from the network with which it's associated, so that you
              will not be able to use any wireless networks with that
              adapter.  This could prevent accessing files on a network
              server, or resolving host names or network addresses, if
              you are capturing in monitor mode and are not connected to
              another network with another adapter.

              This flag will affect the output of the -L flag.  If -I
              isn't specified, only those link-layer types available when
              not in monitor mode will be shown; if -I is specified, only
              those link-layer types available when in monitor mode will
              be shown.

       --immediate-mode
              Capture in "immediate mode".  In this mode, packets are
              delivered to tcpdump as soon as they arrive, rather than
              being buffered for efficiency.  This is the default when
              printing packets rather than saving packets to a
              ``savefile'' if the packets are being printed to a terminal
              rather than to a file or pipe.

       -j tstamp_type, --time-stamp-type=tstamp_type
              Set the time stamp type for the capture to tstamp_type.
              The names to use for the time stamp types are given in
              pcap-tstamp(@MAN_MISC_INFO@); not all the types listed
              there will necessarily be valid for any given interface.

       -J, --list-time-stamp-types
              List the supported time stamp types for the interface and
              exit.  If the time stamp type cannot be set for the
              interface, no time stamp types are listed.

       --time-stamp-precision=tstamp_precision
              When capturing, set the time stamp precision for the
              capture to tstamp_precision.  Note that availability of
              high precision time stamps (nanoseconds) and their actual
              accuracy is platform and hardware dependent.  Also note
              that when writing captures made with nanosecond accuracy to
              a savefile, the time stamps are written with nanosecond
              resolution, and the file is written with a different magic
              number, to indicate that the time stamps are in seconds and
              nanoseconds; not all programs that read pcap savefiles will
              be able to read those captures.

              When reading a savefile, convert time stamps to the
              precision specified by timestamp_precision, and display
              them with that resolution.  If the precision specified is
              less than the precision of time stamps in the file, the
              conversion will lose precision.

              The supported values for timestamp_precision are micro for
              microsecond resolution and nano for nanosecond resolution.
              The default is microsecond resolution.

       --micro, --nano
              Shorthands for --time-stamp-precision=micro or
              --time-stamp-precision=nano, adjusting the time stamp
              precision accordingly.  When reading packets from a
              savefile, using --micro truncates time stamps if the
              savefile was created with nanosecond precision.  In
              contrast, a savefile created with microsecond precision
              will have trailing zeroes added to the time stamp when
              --nano is used.

       -K, --dont-verify-checksums
              Don't attempt to verify IP, TCP, or UDP checksums.  This is
              useful for interfaces that perform some or all of those
              checksum calculation in hardware; otherwise, all outgoing
              TCP checksums will be flagged as bad.

       -l
              Make stdout line buffered.  Useful if you want to see the
              data while capturing it.  E.g.,

              tcpdump -l | tee dat or tcpdump -l > dat & tail -f dat

              Note that on Windows,``line buffered'' means
              ``unbuffered'', so that tcpdump will write each character
              individually if -l is specified.

              -U is similar to -l in its behavior, but it will cause
              output to be ``packet-buffered'', so that the output is
              written to stdout at the end of each packet rather than at
              the end of each line; this is buffered on all platforms,
              including Windows.

       -L, --list-data-link-types
              List the known data link types for the interface, in the
              specified mode, and exit.  The list of known data link
              types may be dependent on the specified mode; for example,
              on some platforms, a Wi-Fi interface might support one set
              of data link types when not in monitor mode (for example,
              it might support only fake Ethernet headers, or might
              support 802.11 headers but not support 802.11 headers with
              radio information) and another set of data link types when
              in monitor mode (for example, it might support 802.11
              headers, or 802.11 headers with radio information, only in
              monitor mode).

       --lengths
              Print the captured and original packet lengths.  The
              lengths are printed at the beginning of the line or after
              the packet number, if any.  caplen is the captured packet
              length (see the -s option).  len is the original (on wire)
              packet length.

       -m module
              Load SMI MIB module definitions from file module.  This
              option can be used several times to load several MIB
              modules into tcpdump.

       -M secret
              Use secret as a shared secret for validating the digests
              found in TCP segments with the TCP-MD5 option (RFC 2385),
              if present.

       -n
              Don't convert addresses (i.e., host addresses, port
              numbers, etc.) to names.

       -N
              Don't print domain name qualification of host names.  E.g.,
              if you give this flag then tcpdump will print ``nic''
              instead of ``nic.ddn.mil''.

       -#, --number
              Print a packet number at the beginning of the line.

       -O, --no-optimize
              Do not run the packet-matching code optimizer.  This is
              useful only if you suspect a bug in the optimizer.

       -p, --no-promiscuous-mode
              Don't put the interface into promiscuous mode.  Note that
              the interface might be in promiscuous mode for some other
              reason; hence, -p cannot be used as an abbreviation for
              ether host {local-hw-addr} or ether broadcast.

       --print
              Print parsed packet output, even if the raw packets are
              being saved to a file with the -w flag.

       --print-sampling=nth
              Print every nth packet. This option enables the --print
              flag.

              Unprinted packets are not parsed, which decreases
              processing time. Setting nth to 100 for example, will
              (counting from 1) parse and print the 100th packet, 200th
              packet, 300th packet, and so on.

              This option also enables the -S flag, as relative TCP
              sequence numbers are not tracked for unprinted packets.

       -Q direction, --direction=direction
              Choose send/receive direction direction for which packets
              should be captured. Possible values are `in', `out' and
              `inout'. Not available on all platforms.

       -q
              Quick output.  Print less protocol information so output
              lines are shorter.

       -r file
              Read packets from file (which was created with the -w
              option or by other tools that write pcap or pcapng files).
              Standard input is used if file is ``-''.

       -S, --absolute-tcp-sequence-numbers
              Print absolute, rather than relative, TCP sequence numbers.

       -s snaplen, --snapshot-length=snaplen
              Snarf snaplen bytes of data from each packet rather than
              the default of 262144 bytes.  Packets truncated because of
              a limited snapshot are indicated in the output with
              ``[|proto]'', where proto is the name of the protocol level
              at which the truncation has occurred.

              Note that taking larger snapshots both increases the amount
              of time it takes to process packets and, effectively,
              decreases the amount of packet buffering.  This may cause
              packets to be lost.  Note also that taking smaller
              snapshots will discard data from protocols above the
              transport layer, which loses information that may be
              important.  NFS and AFS requests and replies, for example,
              are very large, and much of the detail won't be available
              if a too-short snapshot length is selected.

              If you need to reduce the snapshot size below the default,
              you should limit snaplen to the smallest number that will
              capture the protocol information you're interested in.
              Setting snaplen to 0 sets it to the default of 262144, for
              backwards compatibility with recent older versions of
              tcpdump.

       --skip count
              Skip count packets before writing or printing.  count with
              value 0 is allowed.

       -T type
              Force packets selected by "expression" to be interpreted
              the specified type.  Currently known types are aodv (Ad-hoc
              On-demand Distance Vector protocol), carp (Common Address
              Redundancy Protocol), cnfp (Cisco NetFlow protocol), domain
              (Domain Name System), lmp (Link Management Protocol), pgm
              (Pragmatic General Multicast), pgm_zmtp1 (ZMTP/1.0 inside
              PGM/EPGM), ptp (Precision Time Protocol), quic (QUIC),
              radius (RADIUS), resp (REdis Serialization Protocol), rpc
              (Remote Procedure Call), rtcp (Real-Time Applications
              control protocol), rtp (Real-Time Applications protocol),
              snmp (Simple Network Management Protocol), someip
              (SOME/IP), tftp (Trivial File Transfer Protocol), vat
              (Visual Audio Tool), vxlan (Virtual eXtensible Local Area
              Network), wb (distributed White Board) and zmtp1 (ZeroMQ
              Message Transport Protocol 1.0).

              Note that the pgm type above affects UDP interpretation
              only, the native PGM is always recognised as IP protocol
              113 regardless. UDP-encapsulated PGM is often called "EPGM"
              or "PGM/UDP".

              Note that the pgm_zmtp1 type above affects interpretation
              of both native PGM and UDP at once. During the native PGM
              decoding the application data of an ODATA/RDATA packet
              would be decoded as a ZeroMQ datagram with ZMTP/1.0 frames.
              During the UDP decoding in addition to that any UDP packet
              would be treated as an encapsulated PGM packet.

       -t
              Don't print a timestamp on each dump line.

       -tt
              Print the timestamp, as seconds since January 1, 1970,
              00:00:00, UTC, and fractions of a second since that time,
              on each dump line.

       -ttt
              Print a delta (microsecond or nanosecond resolution
              depending on the --time-stamp-precision option) between
              current and previous line on each dump line.  The default
              is microsecond resolution.

       -tttt
              Print a timestamp, as hours, minutes, seconds, and
              fractions of a second since midnight, preceded by the date,
              on each dump line.

       -ttttt
              Print a delta (microsecond or nanosecond resolution
              depending on the --time-stamp-precision option) between
              current and first line on each dump line.  The default is
              microsecond resolution.

       -u
              Print undecoded NFS handles.

       -U, --packet-buffered
              If the -w option is not specified, or if it is specified
              but the --print flag is also specified, make the printed
              packet output ``packet-buffered''; i.e., as the description
              of the contents of each packet is printed, it will be
              written to the standard output, rather than, when not
              writing to a terminal, being written only when the output
              buffer fills.

              If the -w option is specified, make the saved raw packet
              output ``packet-buffered''; i.e., as each packet is saved,
              it will be written to the output file, rather than being
              written only when the output buffer fills.

       -v
              When parsing and printing, produce (slightly more) verbose
              output.  For example, the time to live, identification,
              total length and options in an IP packet are printed.  Also
              enables additional packet integrity checks such as
              verifying the IP and ICMP header checksum.

              When writing to a file with the -w option and at the same
              time not reading from a file with the -r option, report to
              stderr, once per second, the number of packets captured. In
              Solaris, FreeBSD and possibly other operating systems this
              periodic update currently can cause loss of captured
              packets on their way from the kernel to tcpdump.

       -vv
              Even more verbose output.  For example, additional fields
              are printed from NFS reply packets, and SMB packets are
              fully decoded.

       -vvv
              Even more verbose output.  For example, telnet SB...SE
              options are printed in full.  With -X telnet options are
              printed in hex as well.

       -V file
              Read a list of filenames from file. Standard input is used
              if file is ``-''.

       -w file
              Write the raw packets to file rather than parsing and
              printing them out.  They can later be printed with the -r
              option.  Standard output is used if file is ``-''.

              This output will be buffered if written to a file or pipe,
              so a program reading from the file or pipe may not see
              packets for an arbitrary amount of time after they are
              received.  Use the -U flag to cause packets to be written
              as soon as they are received.

              The MIME type application/vnd.tcpdump.pcap has been
              registered with IANA for pcap files. The filename extension
              .pcap appears to be the most commonly used along with .cap
              and .dmp. tcpdump itself doesn't check the extension when
              reading capture files and doesn't add an extension when
              writing them (it uses magic numbers in the file header
              instead). However, many operating systems and applications
              will use the extension if it is present and adding one
              (e.g. .pcap) is recommended.

              See pcap-savefile(@MAN_FILE_FORMATS@) for a description of
              the file format.

       -W filecount
              Used in conjunction with the -C option, this will limit the
              number of files created to the specified number, and begin
              overwriting files from the beginning, thus creating a
              'rotating' buffer.  In addition, it will name the files
              with enough leading 0s to support the maximum number of
              files, allowing them to sort correctly.

              Used in conjunction with the -G option, this will limit the
              number of rotated dump files that get created, exiting with
              status 0 when reaching the limit.

              If used in conjunction with both -C and -G, the -W option
              will currently be ignored, and will only affect the file
              name.

       -x
              When parsing and printing, in addition to printing the
              headers of each packet, print the data of each packet
              (minus its link level header) in hex.  The smaller of the
              entire packet or snaplen bytes will be printed.  Note that
              this is the entire link-layer packet, so for link layers
              that pad (e.g. Ethernet), the padding bytes will also be
              printed when the higher layer packet is shorter than the
              required padding.  In the current implementation this flag
              may have the same effect as -xx if the packet is truncated.
              No effect when -X[X] option is used.

       -xx
              When parsing and printing, in addition to printing the
              headers of each packet, print the data of each packet,
              including its link level header, in hex.  No effect when
              -X[X] option is used.

       -X
              When parsing and printing, in addition to printing the
              headers of each packet, print the data of each packet
              (minus its link level header) in hex and ASCII.  This is
              very handy for analysing new protocols.  In the current
              implementation this flag may have the same effect as -XX if
              the packet is truncated.

       -XX
              When parsing and printing, in addition to printing the
              headers of each packet, print the data of each packet,
              including its link level header, in hex and ASCII.

       -y datalinktype, --linktype=datalinktype
              Set the data link type to use while capturing packets (see
              -L) or just compiling and dumping packet-matching code (see
              -d) to datalinktype.

       -z postrotate-command
              Used in conjunction with the -C or -G options, this will
              make tcpdump run " postrotate-command file " where file is
              the savefile being closed after each rotation. For example,
              specifying -z gzip or -z bzip2 will compress each savefile
              using gzip or bzip2.

              This option can only be used if fork subprocess is
              implemented (e.g. not on Windows systems).

              Note that tcpdump will run the command in parallel to the
              capture, using the lowest priority so that this doesn't
              disturb the capture process.

              And in case you would like to use a command that itself
              takes flags or different arguments, you can always write a
              shell script that will take the savefile name as the only
              argument, make the flags & arguments arrangements and
              execute the command that you want.

       -Z user, --relinquish-privileges=user
              If tcpdump is running as root, after opening the capture
              device or input savefile, but before opening any savefiles
              for output, change the user ID to user and the group ID to
              the primary group of user. This behavior can also be 
              enabled by default at compile time.

       expression
              selects which packets will be dumped.  If no expression is
              given, all packets on the net will be dumped.  Otherwise,
              only packets for that expression is `true' will be dumped.

              For the expression syntax, see pcap-filter(@MAN_MISC_INFO@).

              The expression argument can be passed to tcpdump as either
              a single Shell argument, or as multiple Shell arguments,
              whichever is more convenient.  Generally, if the expression
              contains Shell metacharacters, such as backslashes used to
              escape protocol names, it is easier to pass it as a single,
              quoted argument rather than to escape the Shell
              metacharacters.  Multiple arguments are concatenated with
              spaces before being parsed.

EXAMPLES
       To print all packets arriving at or departing from sundown:
              tcpdump host sundown

       To print traffic between helios and either hot or ace:
              tcpdump host helios and \( hot or ace \)

       To print all IP packets between ace and any host except helios:
              tcpdump ip host ace and not helios

       To print all traffic between local hosts and hosts at Berkeley:
              tcpdump net ucb-ether

       To print all ftp traffic through internet gateway snup: (note that
       the expression is quoted to prevent the shell from
       (mis-)interpreting the parentheses):
              tcpdump 'gateway snup and (port ftp or ftp-data)'

       To print traffic neither sourced from nor destined for local hosts
       (if you gateway to one other net, this stuff should never make it
       onto your local net).
              tcpdump ip and not net localnet

       To print the start and end packets (the SYN and FIN packets) of
       each TCP conversation that involves a non-local host:
              tcpdump 'tcp[tcpflags] & (tcp-syn|tcp-fin) != 0 and not src and dst net localnet'

       To print the TCP packets with flags RST and ACK both set.  (i.e.
       select only the RST and ACK flags in the flags field, and if the
       result is "RST and ACK both set", match):
              tcpdump 'tcp[tcpflags] & (tcp-rst|tcp-ack) == (tcp-rst|tcp-ack)'

       To print all IPv4 HTTP packets to and from port 80, i.e. print
       only packets that contain data, not, for example, SYN and FIN
       packets and ACK-only packets.  (IPv6 is left as an exercise for
       the reader.):
              tcpdump 'tcp port 80 and (((ip[2:2] - ((ip[0]&0xf)<<2)) - ((tcp[12]&0xf0)>>2)) != 0)'

       To print IP packets longer than 576 bytes sent through gateway
       snup:
              tcpdump 'gateway snup and ip[2:2] > 576'

       To print IP broadcast or multicast packets that were not sent via
       Ethernet broadcast or multicast:
              tcpdump 'ether[0] & 1 = 0 and ip[16] >= 224'

       To print all ICMP packets that are not echo requests/replies
       (i.e., not ping packets):
              tcpdump 'icmp[icmptype] != icmp-echo and icmp[icmptype] != icmp-echoreply'